Configuration

# Configuration

Lobby can be configured through the file "config.php" situated in the root directory (lobby/).

The **config.php** file is created automatically after installation. If you don't want to install Lobby through the browser and want to manually install Lobby, then follow these steps :

* Copy *lobby/config-sample.php* to *lobby/* as "config.php".
* Open the *lobby/config.php* file in a text editor.
* Make appropriate changes. You can see detailed info about [Configuration Values here](#ConfigValues).

After making necessary changes to the *lobby/config.php* file, open Lobby in a browser to make sure that the configuration works.

## Configuration Values

Some keys are used for each setting. The following sections show what the values for each keys should be :

### db

Lobby supports both MySQL and SQLite. So, this array will vary.

For MySQL :

```php
array(
  'host' => 'localhost',
  'port' => '3306',
  'username' => 'username',
  'password' => 'password',
  'dbname' => 'database_name', // 
  'prefix' => 'lobby_' // Prefix of table names
)
```

For SQLite :

```php
'db' => array(
  'type' => 'sqlite',
  'path' => '/contents/extra/lobby_db.sqlite',
  'prefix' => 'l_'
),
```

The `path` is relative to the lobby directory. The SQLite DB will be created if it doesn't exist. So you don't have to create the ".sqlite" file manually

### lobbyID

**lobbyID** is a unique identifier for your Lobby installation that will be used in Internet Communication to Lobby Server.

This key's value should be generated by Lobby. This value is generated automatically during the installation process. You can get a new lobbyID from [here](/api/lobby-installation-id).

### secureID

This is another unique identifier for your Lobby installation. It is a secret key and shouldn't be shared anywhere or to anyone. It is not used in Internet Communication, but used for Passwords & Other Encryption. Hence, it must be kept as a secret value to protect your data.

### lobby_url

In cases like [this](http://subinsb.com/lobby#comment-2254238753), Lobby couldn't find the correct Base URL and Lobby will end up in a redirect loop.

To solve this, you can manually add `lobby_url` setting into the **config.php** file and mention the Base URL (**without trailing slash**) as its value. Example :

```php
'lobby_url' => 'http://localhost/mydirectory/lobby'
```

### debug 

When some apps or parts of Lobby doesn't work, you can identify the problem by enabling Debugging. When this value is set to "true", all debug messages are logged in **contents/extra** as **.log** files. See [Debugging](/docs/dev/debug).

### server_check

Whether Lobby should communicate with server to check for updates. This parameter needs a boolean value. Default value is `TRUE`.

```php
'server_check' => true
```
